Champions League roundup: Lazio goalkeeper Provedel stuns Atlético
Provedel scores 95th-minute equaliser to rescue 1-1 draw
Barcelona ease past Royal Antwerp with Félix on target twice

The Lazio goalkeeper Ivan Provedel scored an equaliser deep in injury time as his side claimed a dramatic 1-1 draw with Atlético Madrid at the Stadio Olimpico.

Lazio looked to be heading for a narrow defeat in their opening Champions League Group E clash after Pablo Barrios fired the visitors into a 29th-minute lead.

But under instructions to go up for a corner in the fifth minute of added time, Provedel continued to loiter in the box before leaping to glance a Luis Alberto cross past his opposite number, Jan Oblak.

Provedel’s goal was the sixth by a goalkeeper in the Champions League and only the second from open play, after Sinan Bolat scored for Standard Liege against AZ Alkmaar in 2009.

In Group G, the substitute Benjamin Sesko scored in injury time to seal a 3-1 win for RB Leipzig at Young Boys.

João Félix shone with two goals and an assist as Barcelona proved far too strong for Royal Antwerp, cantering to a 5-0 home victory in Group H. The Portugal international fired an 11th-minute opener before Robert Lewandowski added his side’s second on 19 minutes for Xavi’s in-form side.

João Félix and Robert Lewandowski (left) were on the scoresheet for Barcelona.
João Félix and Robert Lewandowski (left) were on the scoresheet for Barcelona. Photograph: Felipe Mondino/IPA Sport/ipa-a/Shutterstock
The visitors, returning to the top level of European football for the first time in 65 years, fell further behind after 22 minutes when Jelle Bataille’s unfortunate deflection flew in off the post.

Barça were in cruise control with the teenager Gavi adding his side’s fourth goal nine minutes into the second half before the outstanding Félix deservedly completed the rout with his second just past the hour.

Two goals from Galeno helped Porto to begin their Group H campaign with a 3-1 win against Shakhtar Donetsk in Hamburg.

Kylian Mbappé opened the scoring from the penalty spot as Paris Saint-Germain kicked off their Group F campaign with a 2-0 win against Borussia Dortmund. The hosts had to wait until the 49th minute for their opener but made sure of the points in the 56th minute when Achraf Hakimi doubled their advantage with a quality finish.

 This article was amended on 20 September to clarify that Jan Oblak was playing in goal for Atlético Madrid.

Not many keepers could have matched Pope’s San Siro saves, says Eddie Howe
Newcastle keep clean sheet in first Champions League game
Pope made six saves in first 20 minutes against Milan

Eddie Howe acknowledged his debt to Nick Pope after the goalkeeper made a string of outstanding saves to earn Newcastle a precious point in their opening Champions League game against Milan at San Siro.

Pope has recently been out of sorts and dropped by England but he timed his return to form to coincide with his side’s first game in Europe’s showpiece competition since 2003. He made six vital saves in the first 20 minutes.

Nick Pope (left) and Kieran Trippier watch Rafael Leão attempt to score
Newcastle mark Champions League return with Milan draw thanks to Pope
Read more
“Nick was outstanding,” Howe said. “There’s not many keepers who could have made all those saves and his distribution under pressure was excellent. He’s had a lot to do with the clean sheet but our whole defence played well.”

There was particular praise from the manager for his central defenders, Fabian Schär and Sven Botman. “They were very good,” he said.

“We tried to attack and be aggressive but it was a very hostile atmosphere and we didn’t succeed. We perhaps lacked a bit of luck and some of our play was a little bit too loose at times. We’re slightly disappointed at how we used the ball but we’re not disappointed with the result.”

Howe admitted that Newcastle, whose only shot on target came from Sean Longstaff in stoppage time, will need to up their game if they are to progress from a group also containing Borussia Dortmund and Paris Saint-Germain. “To move on we have to do better,” he said. “We have to improve. We know we can be better with the ball.

“But this was a new experience for a lot of us, me included. The players had to adjust to the hostile atmosphere – the crowd were very good for Milan – and you can’t overestimate our performance. Or the point. Everyone’s entitled to their opinion but I didn’t think the draw was luck.”